\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@iftex
@afourpaper
@setchapternewpage off
@end iftex
@setfilename libcfu.info
@settitle Libcfu Programmers Guide
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Don Owens

This code is released under the BSD license:

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
   with the distribution.

 * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


@ifinfo
@dircategory Libraries
@direntry
     * Libcfu: (libcfu).                     The cfu library.
@end direntry
@end ifinfo

@ifinfo
This manual describes the external interface to libcfu version @value{VERSION}

Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Don Owens
All rights reserved.

This code is released under the BSD license:

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
   with the distribution.

 * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title Libcfu Programmers Guide
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION}
@author Don Owens
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Don Owens
All rights reserved.

This code is released under the BSD license:

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
   with the distribution.

 * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
@end titlepage

@node   Top, Data structures, (dir), (dir)
@ifinfo
This manual describes the interface to libcfu version @value{VERSION}

Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Don Owens
@end ifinfo

@menu
* Data structures:: 
* Conf::         For reading configuration files
* Options::      For parsing command-line arguments
* Thread queue:: For queueing up requests for a separate thread
* Timer::        An easy to use timer

* License::      License under which libcfu is distributed

* Concept index::
* Function index::
@end menu

@node Data structures, , Top, Top
@chapter Data structures
@cindex data structures

@menu
* Hash table::  For key/value pairs
* Linked list:: For unordered data
* Strings::     For self-extending strings
@end menu

@node Hash table, Linked list, Data structures, Data structures
@section Hash table
@cindex hash tables

@defspec typedef u_int32_t (*cfuhash_function_t)(const void * @var{key}, size_t @var{length})
 Prototype for a pointer to a hashing function.
@end defspec

@defspec typedef void (*cfuhash_free_fn_t)(void * @var{data})
 Prototype for a pointer to a free function.
@end defspec

@defspec typedef int (*cfuhash_remove_fn_t)(void * @var{key}, size_t @var{key_size}, void * @var{data}, size_t @var{data_size}, void * @var{arg})
 Prototype for a pointer to a function that determines whether or not to remove an entry from the hash.
@end defspec

@defspec typedef int (*cfuhash_foreach_fn_t)(void * @var{key}, size_t @var{key_size}, void * @var{data}, size_t @var{data_size}, void * @var{arg})
 Prototype for a pointer to a function to be called foreach key/value
 pair in the hash by cfuhash_foreach().  The return value should
 normally be zero.  A non-zero return value means to stop iterating
 over the key/value pairs.
@end defspec

@deftypefun {cfuhash_table_t *} cfuhash_new (size_t @var{size}, u_int32_t @var{flags})

 Creates a new hash table.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfuhash_table_t *} cfuhash_new_with_initial_size (size_t @var{size})

 Creates a new hash table with the specified size (number of
 buckets).

@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfuhash_table_t *} cfuhash_new_with_flags (u_int32_t @var{flags})

 Creates a new hash table with the specified flags.  Pass zero
 for flags if you want the defaults. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfuhash_table_t *} cfuhash_new_with_free_fn (size_t @var{size}, u_int32_t @var{flags}, cfuhash_free_fn_t @var{ff})

 Same as cfuhash_new() except automatically calls cfuhash_set_free_fn(). 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_copy (cfuhash_table_t * @var{src}, cfuhash_table_t * @var{dst})

 Copies entries in src to dst 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfuhash_table_t *} cfuhash_merge (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht1}, cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht2}, u_int32_t @var{flags})

 Returns a new hash containing entries from both hash tables.
 For any entries with the same key, the one from ht2 wins.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_set_hash_function (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, cfuhash_function_t @var{hf})

 Sets the hashing function to use when computing which bucket to add
 entries to.  It should return a 32-bit unsigned integer.  By
 default, Perl's hashing algorithm is used.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_set_thresholds (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, float @var{low}, float @var{high})

 Sets the thresholds for when to rehash.  The ratio
 num_entries/buckets is compared against low and high.  If it is
 below 'low' or above 'high', the hash will shrink or grow,
 respectively, unless the flags say to do otherwise.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_set_free_function (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, cfuhash_free_fn_t @var{ff})

 Sets the function to use when removing an entry from the hash,
 i.e., when replacing an existing entry, deleting an entry, or
 clearing the hash.  It is passed the value of the entry as a
 void *.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {u_int32_t} cfuhash_get_flags (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Returns the hash's flags. See below for flag definitions. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {u_int32_t} cfuhash_set_flag (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, u_int32_t @var{flag})

 Sets a flag. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {u_int32_t} cfuhash_clear_flag (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, u_int32_t @var{new_flag})

 Clears a flag. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_get_data (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const void * @var{key}, size_t @var{key_size}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size})

 Returns the value for the entry with given key.  If key_size is -1,
 key is assumed to be a null-terminated string.  If data_size is not
 NULL, the size of the value is placed into data_size.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_exists_data (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const void * @var{key}, size_t @var{key_size})

 Returns 1 if an entry with the given key exists in the hash, 0 otherwise. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_put_data (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const void * @var{key}, size_t @var{key_size}, void * @var{data}, size_t @var{data_size}, void ** @var{r})

 Inserts the given data value into the hash and associates it with
 key.  If key_size is -1, key is assumed to be a null-terminated
 string.  If data_size is -1, it is assumed to be a null-terminated
 string (it's length will be calculated using strlen).  If
 data_size is zero, it will be returned as zero when the value is
 requested.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} cfuhash_clear (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Clears the hash table (deletes all entries). 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void *} cfuhash_delete_data (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const void * @var{key}, size_t @var{key_size})

 Deletes the entry in the hash associated with key. If the entry
 existed, it's value will be returned.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} **cfuhash_keys_data (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, size_t * @var{num_keys}, size_t ** @var{key_sizes}, int @var{fast})

 Returns all the keys from the hash.  The number of keys is placed
 into the value pointed to by num_keys.  If key_sizes is not NULL,
 it will be set to an array of key sizes.  If fast is zero, copies
 of the keys are returned.  Otherwise, pointers to the real keys
 will be returned. 
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_each_data (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, void ** @var{key}, size_t * @var{key_size}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size})

 Initializes a loop over all the key/value pairs in the hash.  It
 returns the first key/value pair (see cfuhash_next_data()).  1 is
 returned if there are any entries in the hash.  0 is returned
 otherwise.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_next_data (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, void ** @var{key}, size_t * @var{key_size}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size})

 Gets the next key/value pair from the hash.  You must initialize
 the loop using cfuhash_each_data() before calling this function.
 If a entry is left to return, 1 is returned from the function.  0
 is returned if there are no more entries in the hash.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {size_t} cfuhash_foreach_remove (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, cfuhash_remove_fn_t @var{r_fn}, cfuhash_free_fn_t @var{ff}, void * @var{arg})

 Iterates over the key/value pairs in the hash, passing each one
 to r_fn, and removes all entries for which r_fn returns true.
 If ff is not NULL, it is the passed the data to be freed.  arg
 is passed to r_fn.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {size_t} cfuhash_foreach (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, cfuhash_foreach_fn_t @var{fe_fn}, void * @var{arg})

 Iterates over the key/value pairs in the hash, passing each one
 to fe_fn, along with arg. This locks the hash, so do not call
 any operations on the hash from within fe_fn unless you really
 know what you're doing.

 If the return value from fe_fn() is not zero, the iteration stops.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_destroy (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Frees all resources allocated by the hash.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_destroy_with_free_fn (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, cfuhash_free_fn_t @var{ff})

 Frees all resources allocated by the hash.  If ff is not NULL, it
 is called for each hash entry with the value of the entry passed as
 its only argument.  If ff is not NULL, it overrides any function
 set previously with cfuhash_set_free_function().
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_rehash (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Rebuild the hash to better accomodate the number of entries. See
 cfuhash_set_thresholds().
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {size_t} cfuhash_num_entries (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Returns the number entries in the hash. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {size_t} cfuhash_num_buckets (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Returns the number of buckets allocated for the hash. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {size_t} cfuhash_num_buckets_used (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Returns the number of buckets actually used out of the total number
 allocated for the hash.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfuhash_bencode_strings (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Assumes all the keys and values are null-terminated strings and
 returns a bencoded string representing the hash (see
 http://www.bittorrent.com/protocol.html)
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_lock (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Locks the hash.  Use this with the each and next functions for
 concurrency control.  Note that the hash is locked automatically
 when doing inserts and deletes, so if you lock the hash and then
 try to insert something into it, you may get into a deadlock,
 depending on your system defaults for how mutexes work.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_unlock (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht})

 Unlocks the hash.  Use this with the each an next functions for
 concurrency control.  The caveat for cfuhash_lock() also applies to
 this function.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuhash_pretty_print (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, FILE * @var{fp})

 Pretty print the hash's key/value pairs to the stream fp.  It is
 assumed that all the keys and values are null-terminated strings.
 
@end deftypefun

 These are like the _data versions of these functions, with the
 following exceptions:

   1) They assume that the key provided is a null-terminated string.

   2) They don't worry about the size of the data.

   3) Returned keys or values are the return value of the function.

@deftypefun {void *} cfuhash_get (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const char * @var{key})
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun int cfuhash_exists (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const char * @var{key});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {void *} cfuhash_put (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const char * @var{key}, void * @var{data});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {void *} cfuhash_delete (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, const char * @var{key});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun int cfuhash_each (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, char ** @var{key}, void ** @var{data});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun int cfuhash_next (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, char ** @var{key}, void ** @var{data});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {void **} cfuhash_keys (cfuhash_table_t * @var{ht}, size_t * @var{num_keys}, int @var{fast});
@end deftypefun

Valid flags for cfuhash_new() or cfuhash_set_flag):

@defvr CFUHASH_NOCOPY_KEYS
Don't copy the key when adding an entry to the hash table.
@end defvr
@defvr CFUHASH_NO_LOCKING
Don't not use any mutexes.  Beware that this flag makes the hash
table non thread-safe.
@end defvr
@defvr CFUHASH_FROZEN
Do not rehash (don't grow or shrink the number of buckets in the hash
table when the thresholds are reached).
@end defvr
@defvr CFUHASH_FROZEN_UNTIL_GROWS
Do not rehash until the upper threshold is reached the first time
(useful for preallocating a large hash to avoid rehashing while
filling it).
@end defvr
@defvr CFUHASH_FREE_DATA
Call free() on the values when cfuhash_destroy() is called.
@end defvr
@defvr CFUHASH_IGNORE_CASE
Treat the keys case-insensitively.
@end defvr


@node Linked list, Strings, Hash table, Data structures
@section Linked list
@cindex linked list
@cindex queues

@defspec typedef int (*cfulist_foreach_fn_t)(void * @var{data}, size_t @var{data_size}, void * @var{arg})
 Function called for each element in the list when passed to
 cfulist_foreach().  A non-zero return value means to stop iteration.
@end defspec


@defspec typedef {void *} (*cfulist_map_fn_t)(void *@var{data}, size_t @var{data_size}, void *@var{arg}, size_t *@var{new_data_size})
Function called for each element in the list when passed to
cfulist_map().  The return value is used to build a new list.
@end defspec


@defspec typedef void (*cfulist_free_fn_t)(void * @var{data})
 Function called to free the data in an element.
@end defspec


@deftypefun {cfulist_t *} cfulist_new ();

 Returns a new list. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {size_t} cfulist_num_entries (cfulist_t *@var{list})

 Returns the number of entries in the list.

@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_push_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void * @var{data}, size_t @var{data_size})

 Push a value onto the end of the list. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_pop_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size})

 Pop a value from the end of the list (removing it from the list).
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_unshift_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void * @var{data}, size_t @var{data_size})

 Add a value at the beginning of the list. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_shift_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size})

 Shift a value off the beginning of the list. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_enqueue_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void * @var{data}, size_t @var{data_size})

 Add a value at the end of the queue (equivalent to push) 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_dequeue_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size})

 Remove the value at the beginning of the list (equivalent to shift). 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun int cfulist_first_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size});

 Return the first entry from the list (without removing it from the list).
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun int cfulist_last_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size});

 Return the last entry from the list (without removing it from the list).
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun int cfulist_nth_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size}, size_t @var{n});

 Return the nth entry from the list (without removing it from the list).  n starts at zero.
@end deftypefun



@deftypefun void cfulist_reset_each (cfulist_t * @var{list});
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun int cfulist_each_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size});
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun int cfulist_next_data (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void ** @var{data}, size_t * @var{data_size});
@end deftypefun


@deftypefun size_t cfulist_foreach (cfulist_t * @var{list}, cfulist_foreach_fn_t @var{fe_fn}, void * @var{arg});

Calls fe_fn() for each element in the list. Also passes arg on each
call.  Do not try to manipulate the list inside fe_fn(), as the list
will be locked.

If fe_fn() returns a non-zero value, the iteration over the elements stops.
@end deftypefun


@deftypefun {cfulist_t *}cfulist_map (cfulist_t *@var{list}, cfulist_map_fn_t @var{map_fn}, void *@var{arg});
Creates a new list from the list passed in.  Calls map_fn() on each
element in the list.  The return value is placed in the corresponding
position in the new list.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} cfulist_destroy (cfulist_t * @var{list})

 Free all resources used by the list. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} cfulist_destroy (cfulist_t * @var{list}, cfulist_free_fn_t @var{free_fn})

 Free all resources used by the list. If free_fn is not NULL, call it
for each element of the list, passing the data to it as a void *.
@end deftypefun


When you don't care about the size of the data 

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_push (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void * @var{data})
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void *} cfulist_pop (cfulist_t * @var{list});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {int} cfulist_unshift (cfulist_t * @var{list}, void * @var{data});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {void *} cfulist_shift (cfulist_t * @var{list});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {int} cfulist_enqueue (cfulist_t * @var{ist}, void * @var{data});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {void *} cfulist_dequeue (cfulist_t * @var{list});
@end deftypefun

Strings -- assume data is a null-terminated string -- size is calculated by strlen(data) + 1

@deftypefun {int} cfulist_push_string (cfulist_t * @var{list}, char * @var{data})
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfulist_pop_string (cfulist_t * @var{list});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {int} cfulist_unshift_string (cfulist_t * @var{list}, char * @var{data});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {char *} cfulist_shift_string (cfulist_t * @var{list});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {int} cfulist_enqueue_string (cfulist_t * @var{list}, char * @var{data});
@end deftypefun
@deftypefun {char *} cfulist_dequeue_string (cfulist_t * @var{list});
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfulist_join (cfulist_t * @var{list}, const char * @var{delimiter})
@end deftypefun

@node Strings, , Linked list, Data structures
@section Strings
@cindex strings
@cindex self-extending strings

@deftypefun {cfustring_t *} cfustring_new (size_t @var{initial_size})

 Returns a new String. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfustring_t *} cfustring_new_from_string (const char * @var{string})

 Returns a new String initalized with the given string. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfustring_dup (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str}, const char * @var{string})

 Overwrite anything currently in cfu_str with string. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfustring_clear (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str})

 Truncate the string. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfustring_append (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str}, const char * @var{str})

 Append str to the end of the buffer in cfu_str. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfustring_get_buffer (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str})

 Get the buffer used to hold the string.  Do not free() it, as it is
 used directly by cfustring and will be destroyed when
 cfustring_destroy() is called.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfustring_get_buffer_copy (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str})

 Same as cfustring_get_buffer(), except return a copy of the string.
 Caller is responsible for deallocating the buffer with free().
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfustring_t **} cfustring_split (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str}, size_t * @var{num_strings}, size_t @var{limit},  @var{...})

 Split cfu_str on one or more delimiting strings, e.g.,
 cfustring_split(cfu_str, 2, 0, "\r\n", "\n").  Use a limit > 0 if
 you want to only get back a certain number of strings and ignore
 any extra delimiters.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char **} cfustring_split_to_c_str (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str}, size_t * @var{num_strings}, size_t @var{limit},  @var{...})

 Same as cfustring_split(), except return an array of C-strings.
 Caller is responsible for deallocating the buffers.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfustring_destroy (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str})

 Free all resources allocated by cfu_str. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfustring_dup_c_str (const char * @var{str})

 Duplicate the C string str.  Caller must free with free(). 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfustring_dup_c_str_n (const char * @var{str}, size_t @var{n})

 Same as cfustring_dup_c_str(), but only copy at most n chars 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun size_t cfustring_sprintf (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str}, const char * @var{fmt}, @var{...});

 Like sprintf(), but writes to a self-extending string.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun size_t cfustring_vsprintf (cfustring_t * @var{cfu_str}, const char * @var{fmt}, va_list @var{ap});
 Like vsprintf(), but writes to a self-extending string.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *} cfustring_sprintf_c_str (const char * @var{fmt}, @var{...})

 Similar to sprintf(), but allocates a C string of the
 appropriate size for you and returns it.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char **} cfustring_c_str_split (const char * @var{c_str}, size_t * @var{num_strings}, size_t @var{limit}, @var{...})

 Like cfustring_split_to_c_str(), but split a char * instead of a cfustring_t *.

@end deftypefun


@node Conf, Options, Top, Top
@chapter Conf
@cindex configuration file
@cindex apache configuration file

This needs to be better documented.


Apache-style conf files contain directives and containers.
Directives are simple one line specifications with or without
arguments, e.g.,

   Doit
       Expires On
       LoadModule my_mod modules/my_mod.so

Containers have a type and a name associated with them and they
in turn contain directives and/or containers, e.g.,

   <MyContainer test1>
           Expires Off
               <DB devdb>
                   DBHost db.example.com
                       DBUser test_user
               </DB>
       </MyContainer>

Values may be quoted, e.g.

   DBUser "test user"

But must be specified on a single line.  To escape quotes
within a quoted string, use the '\' character.


@deftypefun {int} cfuconf_parse_file (char * @var{file_path}, cfuconf_t ** @var{conf}, char ** @var{error})

 Parse the apache-like conf file specified by file_path,
 returning a pointer to a cfuconf_t structure in conf.  Returns
 zero on success, less than zero on error.  If an error occurs
 and error is not NULL, it will be set to an error message
 (which must be free()'d by the caller).
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuconf_parse_buffer (char * @var{buffer}, cfuconf_t ** @var{conf}, char ** @var{error})

 Same as cfuconf_parse_file(), except assume the contents of the
 file are already in buffer.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} cfuconf_destroy (cfuconf_t * @var{conf})

 Free all resources used by the cfuconf_t structure 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfuhash_table_t *} cfuconf_get_containers (cfuconf_t * @var{conf})

 Get a hash of containers at the top level of conf 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfuhash_table_t *} cfuconf_get_directives (cfuconf_t * @var{conf})

 Get a hash of directives at the to level 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuconf_get_directive_one_arg (cfuconf_t * @var{conf}, char * @var{directive}, char ** @var{rvalue})

 Get the value of the given directive, assuming there is only one argument 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuconf_get_directive_two_args (cfuconf_t * @var{conf}, char * @var{directive}, char ** @var{rvalue}, char ** @var{rvalue2})

 Get the value of the given directive, assuming there are two arguments 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {int} cfuconf_get_directive_n_args (cfuconf_t * @var{conf}, char * @var{directive}, size_t @var{n},  @var{...})

 Get the value of the given directives, with n arguments 
@end deftypefun

@node Options, Thread queue, Conf, Top

@chapter Options
@cindex options
@cindex command-line arguments
@cindex arguments

Command-line arguments can be parsed with the following:

@verbatim
	cfuopt_t *opt = cfuopt_new();
	cfuopt_add_entry(opt, "verbose|v!", &verbose, "Verbosity", "");
	cfuopt_add_entry(opt, "file|f:s", &file, "File to load", "FILE");
	cfuopt_add_entry(opt, "count|c|n=i", &count, "Count to run", "COUNT");
	cfuopt_add_entry(opt, "scale|s:f", &scale, "Scaling factor", "SCALE");
	cfuopt_parse(opt, &argc, &argv, &error);
        /* do stuff here with the options */
       	cfuopt_destroy(opt);
        free(file);
@end verbatim

@deftypefun {cfuopt_t *}cfuopt_new ()
Returns a new options context.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun void cfuopt_add_entry (cfuopt_t *@var{context}, const char *@var{opt_str}, void *@var{arg_data}, const char *@var{description}, const char *@var{arg_description})
Adds to the list of known options.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun void cfuopt_parse (cfuopt_t *@var{context}, int *@var{argc}, char ***@var{argv}, char **@var{error})
Parses the command line and modifies argc and argv to account for left over arguments.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {char *}cfuopt_get_help_str (cfuopt_t *@var{context})
Returns a help string built from the entries added with cfuopt_add_entry().
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun void cfuopt_destroy (cfuopt_t *@var{context})
Frees up resources used by the option parser.
@end deftypefun


@node Thread queue, Timer, Options, Top
@chapter Thread queue
@cindex threading
@cindex thread queue

cfuthread_queue provides a way to serialize requests for a resource
where you want the resource to be accessed from a single thread only.
For instance, for a database connection where making calls in separate
threads does not work properly, you can use cfuthread_queue.
cfuthread_queue_new() creates a new thread that waits for something to
be added to the queue.  Once something is added, the thread will
process the data by calling the function you pass as an argument to
the cfuthread_queue_new() function.

@deftypefun {cfuthread_queue_t *} cfuthread_queue_new (cfuthread_queue_fn_t @var{fn})

 Creates a new thread queue structure that will run the given
 function when a request is received.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {cfuthread_queue_t *} cfuthread_queue_new_with_cleanup (cfuthread_queue_fn_t @var{fn}, cfuthread_queue_init_t @var{init_fn}, void * @var{init_arg}, cfuthread_queue_cleanup_t @var{cleanup_fn}, void * @var{cleanup_arg})

 Same as cfuthread_queue_new(), but with an initialization
 function that gets called with the argument init_arg when the
 thread is created, and a cleanup function that gets called with
 the argument cleanup_arg when the thread exits, e.g., when
 cfuthread_queue_destroy() is called.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void *} cfuthread_queue_make_request (cfuthread_queue_t * @var{tq}, void * @var{data})

 Add a request to the queue.  data will get passed to the
 function fn given to cfuthread_queue_new when it reaches the
 front of the queue.
 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} cfuthread_queue_destroy (cfuthread_queue_t * @var{tq})

 Free up resources used by the queue, in addition to canceling
 the thread.
 
@end deftypefun


@node Timer, License, Thread queue, Top
@chapter Timer
@cindex timer

@deftypefun {cfutime_t} *cfutime_new ();

 Return a new cfutime structure. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun void cfutime_begin (cfutime_t *@var{time})

 Start the timer.
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} cfutime_end (cfutime_t * @var{time})

 Stop the timer. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {double} cfutime_elapsed (cfutime_t * @var{time})

 Return the number of seconds elapsed as a double. 
@end deftypefun

@deftypefun {void} cfutime_free (cfutime_t * @var{time})

 Deallocate resources allocated for time. 
@end deftypefun

@node License, , Timer, Top
@unnumbered License
@cindex license

Copyright @copyright{} 2005 Don Owens
All rights reserved.

This code is released under the BSD license:

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

 * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
   with the distribution.

 * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
   from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

@node   Concept index, Function index, Top, Top
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@node   Function index,  , Concept index, Top
@unnumbered Function index

@printindex fn

@contents

@bye
